Update beginner's tutorial (#1276)
MetaMask/metamask-docs: wallet/tutorials/javascript-dapp-simple.md

---
description: Create a simple dapp to integrate with MetaMask.
toc_max_heading_level: 4
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Create a simple dapp 

This tutorial walks you through creating a simple JavaScript dapp and integrating it with MetaMask. 
It demonstrates the basics of connecting to MetaMask: detecting the MetaMask provider, detecting the user's network, and accessing the user's accounts.

:::caution Learning tutorial
This tutorial is for educational purposes and connects to MetaMask using the legacy provider object, `window.ethereum`, for the sake of simplicity.
For deployment in a production environment, we recommend [connecting to MetaMask using EIP-6963](../how-to/connect/index.md) instead. 

[EIP-6963](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6963) introduces an alternative wallet detection mechanism to the `window.ethereum` provider, and enables dapps to support [wallet interoperability](../concepts/wallet-interoperability.md).

For a full end-to-end tutorial that can be used in production, see the
[Create a simple React dapp](../tutorials/react-dapp-local-state.md) tutorial.
:::

## Prerequisites

> - [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) version 18+

Reviewer: Forgot to add – I tested this and it works for me using Node 20 but not Node 18. Would be good to double check this on your side.

- [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) version 9+

- A text editor of your choice, such as [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

- [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/) installed in the browser of your choice on your development machine.

## Steps

### 1. Set up a new project

> Create a new project using with the following structure:
> 
> ```text
> simple-dapp/
> ├─ src/
> │  ├─ detect.js
> ├─ dist/
> │  ├─ index.html
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Since the new instructions are to use Vite, we don't need this instruction anymore right?

Create a new project using [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/):

```bash
npm create vite@latest simple-dapp -- --template vanilla
```

> Ensure to include a `detect.js` file in the `src` directory of your `simple-dapp` project, if it is not already present.
> 
> Then change directories:
> 
> ```bash
> cd simple-dapp 
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Change directories:

```bash
cd simple-dapp
```
````

`src/detect.js` is not included by default. I think it makes more sense to instruct the user to create `src/detect.js` in the next step.

> Install the dependencies listed in the project's `package.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the dependencies listed in the project's `package.json`:
```

Should consistently use period or colon when introducing a code sample.

```bash
npm install    
```

> Run the development script to start a local development server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the development script to start a local development server:
```

```bash
npm run dev
```

### 2. Detect MetaMask

:::caution

The `@metamask/detect-provider` module is deprecated, and is only used here for educational purposes. In production environments, we recommend [connecting to MetaMask using EIP-6963](../how-to/connect/index.md).

:::

Install the `@metamask/detect-provider` module in your project directory:

```bash
npm i @metamask/detect-provider
```

> 

Reviewer: ````suggestion

Create a `src` directory, change into it, and create a new file `detect.js`:

```bash
mkdir src
cd src
touch detect.js
```

````

Add the following code to `src/detect.js` to detect the MetaMask provider using `@metamask/detect-provider`:

```js title="detect.js"
import detectEthereumProvider from "@metamask/detect-provider";

async function setup() {
  const provider = await detectEthereumProvider();

  if (provider && provider === window.ethereum) {
    console.log("MetaMask is available!");
    startApp(provider); // Initialize your dapp with MetaMask.
  } else {
    console.log("Please install MetaMask!");
  }
}

function startApp(provider) {
  if (provider !== window.ethereum) {
    console.error("Do you have multiple wallets installed?");
  }
}

window.addEventListener("load", setup);
```

### 3. Serve the project

To test and verify your project works with MetaMask, serve your project through a local server. 
Navigate to the project directory.
Run the `npm run dev` command to test your application locally. 
Open your browser and go to the provided local server URL.

> 

Reviewer: Can you include a screenshot here portraying what the user should expect to see at this point?

ethereumButton.addEventListener("click", () => {
  getAccount();
});

// While awaiting the call to eth_requestAccounts, you should disable any buttons the user can
// select to initiate the request. MetaMask rejects any additional requests while the first is still
// pending.
async function getAccount() {
  const accounts = await window.ethereum
    .request({ method: "eth_requestAccounts" })
      .catch((err) => {
        if (err.code === 4001) {
          // EIP-1193 userRejectedRequest error.
          // If this happens, the user rejected the connection request.
          console.log("Please connect to MetaMask.");
        } else {
          console.error(err);
        }
      });
  const account = accounts[0];
  showAccount.innerHTML = account;
}
```

Add the following HTML code to the body of `dist/index.html`, which displays the button and the current account:

```html title="index.html"
<!-- Display a connect button and the current account -->
<button class="enableEthereumButton">Enable Ethereum</button>
<h2>Account: <span class="showAccount"></span></h2>
```

To complete the tutorial, [run the project on a local server](#3-serve-the-project) to view the live dapp.

> 

Reviewer: Can you include one or two screenshots here portraying the final expected result?

---
description: Create a simple dapp to integrate with MetaMask.
toc_max_heading_level: 4
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Create a simple dapp 

This tutorial walks you through creating a simple JavaScript dapp and integrating it with MetaMask. 
It demonstrates the basics of connecting to MetaMask: detecting the MetaMask provider, detecting the user's network, and accessing the user's accounts.

:::caution Learning tutorial
This tutorial is for educational purposes and connects to MetaMask using the legacy provider object, `window.ethereum`, for the sake of simplicity.
For deployment in a production environment, we recommend [connecting to MetaMask using EIP-6963](../how-to/connect/index.md) instead. 

[EIP-6963](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6963) introduces an alternative wallet detection mechanism to the `window.ethereum` provider, and enables dapps to support [wallet interoperability](../concepts/wallet-interoperability.md).

For a full end-to-end tutorial that can be used in production, see the
[Create a simple React dapp](../tutorials/react-dapp-local-state.md) tutorial.
:::

## Prerequisites

> - [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) version 20

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) version 20+
```

- [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) version 9+

- A text editor of your choice, such as [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

- [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/) installed in the browser of your choice on your development machine.

## Steps

### 1. Set up a new project

Create a new project using [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/guide/):

```bash
npm create vite@latest simple-dapp -- --template vanilla
```

Change directories:

```bash
cd simple-dapp 
```

Install the dependencies listed in the project's `package.json`.

```bash
npm install    
```

> Run the development script to start a local development server:
> 
> ```bash
> npm run dev
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Maybe remove this step here since we instruct them to run the local server in a later step.

### 2. Detect MetaMask

:::caution

The `@metamask/detect-provider` module is deprecated, and is only used here for educational purposes. In production environments, we recommend [connecting to MetaMask using EIP-6963](../how-to/connect/index.md).

:::

Install the `@metamask/detect-provider` module in your project directory:

```bash
npm i @metamask/detect-provider
```

Create a `src` directory, change into it, and create a new file `detect.js`:

```bash
mkdir src
cd src
touch detect.js
```

> Your project structure should look similar to the following:
> 
> ```text
> simple-dapp/
> ├─ src/
> │  ├─ detect.js
> ├─ dist/
> │  ├─ index.html
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The project structure doesn't look like this with the vanilla template. I don't think this is needed.

In a text editor, add the following code to `src/detect.js` to detect the MetaMask provider using `@metamask/detect-provider`:

```js title="detect.js"
import detectEthereumProvider from "@metamask/detect-provider";

async function setup() {
  const provider = await detectEthereumProvider();

  if (provider && provider === window.ethereum) {
    console.log("MetaMask is available!");
    startApp(provider); // Initialize your dapp with MetaMask.
  } else {
    console.log("Please install MetaMask!");
  }
}

function startApp(provider) {
  if (provider !== window.ethereum) {
    console.error("Do you have multiple wallets installed?");
  }
}

window.addEventListener("load", setup);
```

> ### 3. Serve the project
> 
> To test and verify your project works with MetaMask, serve your project through a local server. 
> Navigate to the simple-app project directory.
> Run the `npm run dev` command to test your application locally. 
> Open your browser and go to the provided local server URL.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Nothing has actually changed at this point, since we haven't updated `index.html`. Let's remove this step and just add a screenshot at the final stage of the tutorial.

```jsx title="detect.js"
// You should only attempt to request the user's account in response to user interaction, such as
// selecting a button. Otherwise, you risk spamming the user. If you fail to retrieve
// the user's account, you should encourage the user to initiate the attempt.
const ethereumButton = document.querySelector(".enableEthereumButton");
const showAccount = document.querySelector(".showAccount");

ethereumButton.addEventListener("click", () => {
  getAccount();
});

// While awaiting the call to eth_requestAccounts, you should disable any buttons the user can
// select to initiate the request. MetaMask rejects any additional requests while the first is still
// pending.
async function getAccount() {
  const accounts = await window.ethereum
    .request({ method: "eth_requestAccounts" })
      .catch((err) => {
        if (err.code === 4001) {
          // EIP-1193 userRejectedRequest error.
          // If this happens, the user rejected the connection request.
          console.log("Please connect to MetaMask.");
        } else {
          console.error(err);
        }
      });
  const account = accounts[0];
  showAccount.innerHTML = account;
}
```

> Add the following HTML code to the body of `dist/index.html`, which displays the button and the current account:
> 
> ```html title="index.html"
> <!-- Display a connect button and the current account -->
> <button class="enableEthereumButton">Enable Ethereum</button>
> <h2>Account: <span class="showAccount"></span></h2>
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Update `index.html` with the following HTML code, which displays the button and the current account:

```html title="index.html"
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <link rel="icon" type="image/svg+xml" href="/vite.svg" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Simple dapp</title>
    <script type="module" src="src/detect.js"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!-- Display a connect button and the current account -->
    <button class="enableEthereumButton">Enable Ethereum</button>
    <h2>Account: <span class="showAccount"></span></h2>
  </body>
</html>
```
````

> To complete the tutorial, [run the project on a local server](#3-serve-the-project) to view the live dapp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save your changes and run `npm run dev` in the `simple-dapp` project directory.
Navigate to the local server URL to view the live dapp.
```

[Detect the user's network](../how-to/connect/detect-metamask.md) to ensure all RPC requests are submitted to the currently connected network.
Add the following code to `src/index.js`, which uses the [`eth_chainId`](/wallet/reference/eth_chainId)
RPC method to detect the chain ID of the user's current network, and listens to the [`chainChanged`](/wallet/reference/provider-api/#chainchanged) provider event to detect when the user changes networks:

```js title="index.js"
const chainId = await window.ethereum 
  .request({ method: "eth_chainId" });

window.ethereum
  .on("chainChanged", handleChainChanged);

function handleChainChanged(chainId) {
  // We recommend reloading the page, unless you must do otherwise.
  window.location.reload();
}
```

### 5. Access an account

To interact with Ethereum on the user's behalf, such as sending transactions or requesting balances, your dapp needs to [access the user's accounts](../how-to/connect/access-accounts) by calling [`eth_requestAccounts`](/wallet/reference/eth_requestaccounts).

Add the following code to `src/index.js`, which creates a button to allow users to connect to MetaMask from your dapp.

> Selecting the button activates the call to `eth_requestAccounts`, allowing you to access to user's accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selecting the button activates the call to `eth_requestAccounts`, allowing you to access the user's accounts.
```

```jsx title="index.js"
// You should only attempt to request the user's account in response to user interaction, such as
// selecting a button. Otherwise, you risk spamming the user. If you fail to retrieve
// the user's account, you should encourage the user to initiate the attempt.
const ethereumButton = document.querySelector(".enableEthereumButton");
const showAccount = document.querySelector(".showAccount");

ethereumButton.addEventListener("click", () => {
  getAccount();
});

// While awaiting the call to eth_requestAccounts, you should disable any buttons the user can
// select to initiate the request. MetaMask rejects any additional requests while the first is still
// pending.
async function getAccount() {
  const accounts = await window.ethereum
    .request({ method: "eth_requestAccounts" })
      .catch((err) => {
        if (err.code === 4001) {
          // EIP-1193 userRejectedRequest error.
          // If this happens, the user rejected the connection request.
          console.log("Please connect to MetaMask.");
        } else {
          console.error(err);
        }
      });
  const account = accounts[0];
  showAccount.innerHTML = account;
}
```

> The following HTML code displays the button and the current account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following HTML code to the body of `dist/index.html`, which displays the button and the current account:
```

For deployment in a production environment, we recommend [connecting to MetaMask using EIP-6963](../how-to/connect/index.md) instead. 

[EIP-6963](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6963) introduces an alternative wallet detection mechanism to the `window.ethereum` provider, and enables dapps to support [wallet interoperability](../concepts/wallet-interoperability.md).

For a full end-to-end tutorial that can be used in production, see the
[Create a simple React dapp](../tutorials/react-dapp-local-state.md) tutorial.
:::

## Prerequisites

- [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/) installed in the browser of your choice on your development machine.

- A text editor of your choice, such as [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).
 You can install the [Live Server](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ritwickdey.LiveServer)
extension for VS Code to easily launch a local development server for your dapp.

- [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm).

## Steps

### 1. Set up a new project

Create a new project with the following structure:

```text
simple-dapp/
├─ src/
│  ├─ index.js
├─ dist/
│  ├─ index.html

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

````

Add the following code to `dist/index.html`:

```jsx title="index.html"
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <title>Simple dapp</title>
</head>
<body>
    <script src="../dist/index.js"></script>  <!-- Links to the JavaScript bundle created by Webpack -->
</body>
</html>
```

### 2. Install and configure Webpack

Navigate to the root of your `simple-dapp` directory and run the following commands to initialize npm and install Webpack.

```bash 
npm init -y && npm install --save-dev webpack webpack-cli
```

Create a `webpack.config.js` in the root of your project with the following configuration:

```js title="webpack.config.js"
const path = require("path");

module.exports = {
  entry: "./src/index.js",
  output: {
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, "dist"),
    filename: "index.js",
  },
  mode: "development",
};
```

Then, edit `package.json` to include a build script:

```json title="package.json"
"scripts": {
  "build": "webpack"
}
```

When you run `npm run build` from your terminal, Webpack bundles the content in `src/index.js` into `dist/main.js`, which is linked in `index.html`.

### 3. Detect MetaMask

:::caution

> Using the `window.ethereum` provider object to detect MetaMask is deprecated. We recommend [connecting to MetaMask using EIP-6963](../how-to/connect/index.md) for production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@metamask/detect-provider` module is deprecated, and is only used here for educational purposes. In production environments, we recommend [connecting to MetaMask using EIP-6963](../how-to/connect/index.md).
```

:::

Install the `@metamask/detect-provider` module in your project directory:

```bash
npm i @metamask/detect-provider
```

Add the following code to `src/index.js` to detect the MetaMask provider using `@metamask/detect-provider`:

```js title="index.js"
import detectEthereumProvider from "@metamask/detect-provider";

async function setup() {
  const provider = await detectEthereumProvider();

  if (provider && provider === window.ethereum) {
    console.log("MetaMask is available!");
    startApp(provider); // Initialize your dapp with MetaMask.
  } else {
    console.log("Please install MetaMask!");
  }
}

function startApp(provider) {
  if (provider !== window.ethereum) {
    console.error("Do you have multiple wallets installed?");
  }
}

window.addEventListener("load", setup);
```

> #### Serve the project

Reviewer: Maybe add as a separate step

> #### Serve the project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. Serve the project
```
Add as separate step?

Author: I think this part of detect Metamask. I am not sure this needs to be a separate step.  I think it is more of a sub-step of what is described earlier

Reviewer: This step is testing the project in the local server, which is a separate task to installing and using the `detect-provider` package. This step is actual useful to use again throughout the rest of the tutorial, and at the end for testing the finished product.

To test and verify your project works with MetaMask, serve your project through a local server. 
If using VS Code and [Live Server](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ritwickdey.LiveServer), right-click the `index.html` file, and select **Open with Live Server**. 
 
Alternatively, you can install `http-server` using the following command:

```bash
npm install -g http-server
```

Then navigate to the project directory, and run `http-server`. 

Open your browser and go to the provided local server URL (typically http://127.0.0.1:8080).

> ### 4. Determine a user's connected network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 5. Detect a user's network
```

> [Detect the user's network](#3-detect-metamask) to ensure all RPC requests are submitted to the currently connected network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Detect the user's network](../how-to/manage-networks/detect-network.md) to ensure all RPC requests are submitted to the currently connected network.
```

This should link to the page explaining more about detecting a user's network, and not to the previous step that detects MetaMask.

Add the following code to `src/index.js`, which uses the [`eth_chainId`](/wallet/reference/eth_chainId)
RPC method to detect the chain ID of the user's current network, and listens to the [`chainChanged`](/wallet/reference/provider-api/#chainchanged) provider event to detect when the user changes networks:

> ```jsx title="index.js"
> const chainId = await window.ethereum 
>     .request({ method: "eth_chainId" });
> 
> window.ethereum
>     .on("chainChanged", handleChainChanged);
> 
> function handleChainChanged(chainId) {
>     // We recommend reloading the page, unless you must do otherwise.
>     window.location.reload();
> }
> ```
> For more information on Chain IDs, see [Detect a user's network](../tutorials/javascript-dapp-simple.md)

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```js title="index.js"
const chainId = await window.ethereum 
  .request({ method: "eth_chainId" });

window.ethereum
  .on("chainChanged", handleChainChanged);

function handleChainChanged(chainId) {
  // We recommend reloading the page, unless you must do otherwise.
  window.location.reload();
}
```
````

> ### 5. Access an account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 6. Access a user's accounts
```

Author: I think I renamed this, because there's duplicate naming for some sections and pages. We have a page titled access "Access a user's accounts" and then this section. I think that could be a bit confusing since we are not reusing content and it differs. I know that the actual page link is different, but for someone navigating the docs or searching could this be a bit confusing?

Reviewer: I think it's fine for it to be the same, it's essentially the same content and it's a very simple task. This should be changed to "accounts" anyway because `eth_requestAccounts` can return multiple accounts.

> To interact with Ethereum on the user's behalf, such as sending transactions or requesting balances, your dapp needs to [access the user's accounts](../how-to/connect/access-accounts) by calling [`eth_requestAccounts`](/wallet/reference/eth_requestaccounts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To interact with Ethereum on the user's behalf, such as sending transactions or requesting balances, your dapp needs to [access the user's accounts](../how-to/connect/access-accounts.md) by calling [`eth_requestAccounts`](/wallet/reference/eth_requestaccounts).
```

Fix link error

> 
> #### Create a connect button

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Remove this heading for simplicity

const showAccount = document.querySelector(".showAccount");

ethereumButton.addEventListener("click", () => {
  getAccount();
});

// While awaiting the call to eth_requestAccounts, you should disable any buttons the user can
// select to initiate the request. MetaMask rejects any additional requests while the first is still
// pending.
async function getAccount() {
  const accounts = await window.ethereum
    .request({ method: "eth_requestAccounts" })
      .catch((err) => {
        if (err.code === 4001) {
          // EIP-1193 userRejectedRequest error.
          // If this happens, the user rejected the connection request.
          console.log("Please connect to MetaMask.");
        } else {
          console.error(err);
        }
      });
  const account = accounts[0];
  showAccount.innerHTML = account;
}
```

Add the following HTML code to the body of `dist/index.html`, which displays the button and the current account:

```html title="index.html"
<!-- Display a connect button and the current account -->
<button class="enableEthereumButton">Enable Ethereum</button>
<h2>Account: <span class="showAccount"></span></h2>
```

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add something at the end about viewing the live dapp in the local server again.

> ## Example simple dapp 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example
```

For consistency with our other pages

        if (err.code === 4001) {
          // EIP-1193 userRejectedRequest error.
          // If this happens, the user rejected the connection request.
          console.log("Please connect to MetaMask.");
        } else {
          console.error(err);
        }
      });
  const account = accounts[0];
  showAccount.innerHTML = account;
}
```

Update `index.html` with the following HTML code, which displays the button and the current account:

```html title="index.html"
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <link rel="icon" type="image/svg+xml" href="/vite.svg" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>Simple dapp</title>
    <script type="module" src="/main.js"></script>
    <script type="module" src="src/detect.js"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <!-- Display a connect button and the current account -->
    <button class="enableEthereumButton">Enable Ethereum</button>
    <h2>Account: <span class="showAccount"></span></h2>
  </body>
</html>
```

Save your changes and run `npm run dev` in the `simple-dapp` project directory.
Navigate to the local server URL to view the live dapp.

> 

Reviewer: Please test out the updated code and add screenshots here.

---
description: Create a simple dapp to integrate with MetaMask.
toc_max_heading_level: 4
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Create a simple dapp 

> This tutorial demonstrates the basics of creating a simple dapp using JavaScript that integrates with MetaMask. 
> 
> MetaMask allows dapps to handle transactions, authenticate users through Ethereum addresses instead of traditional logins, and engage with smart contracts directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial walks you through creating a simple JavaScript dapp and integrating it with MetaMask. It demonstrates the basics of connecting to MetaMask: detecting the MetaMask provider, detecting the user's network, and accessing the user's accounts.
```

> :::important Learning tutorial
> This tutorial is for educational purposes and connects to MetaMask using the legacy provider object, `window.ethereum`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution Learning tutorial
This tutorial is for educational purposes and connects to MetaMask using the legacy provider object, `window.ethereum`, for the sake of simplicity.
```

For deployment in a production environment, we recommend [connecting to MetaMask using EIP-6963](../how-to/connect/index.md) instead. 

[EIP-6963](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6963) introduces an alternative wallet detection mechanism to the `window.ethereum` provider, and enables dapps to support [wallet interoperability](../concepts/wallet-interoperability.md).

For a full end-to-end tutorial that can be used in production, see the
[Create a simple React dapp](../tutorials/react-dapp-local-state.md) tutorial.
:::

## Prerequisites

> - [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/) [installed in the browser of your choice](/snaps/get-started/install-flask/) on your development machine.
>  We recommend [running a development network](/wallet/how-to/run-devnet/) on MetaMask when developing a dapp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MetaMask](https://metamask.io/) installed in the browser of your choice on your development machine.
```

1. You linked to Snaps MetaMask Flask here – that is not for developing dapps (and not for beginners whatsoever). Flask is used for experimental Snaps features. We're asking readers to install the stable MM extension, so linking to the MM site should be enough.
2. I think we can remove the devnet recommendation to increase the simplicity of this tutorial.

- A text editor of your choice, such as [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).
 You can install the [Live Server](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ritwickdey.LiveServer)
extension for VS Code to easily launch a local development server for your dapp.

> - A module bundler, such as [Webpack](https://github.com/webpack/webpack).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Since we instruct the user to install Webpack in one of the steps, we don't need it here as a prerequisite.

- [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm).

## Steps

### 1. Set up a new project

> Your dapp project directory must have the following structure:
> 
> ```text
> simple-dapp/
> ├─ src/
> │  ├─ index.js
> ├─ dist/
> │  ├─ index.html
> ```
> 
> For the dapp to work, your project script `index.js` must:
> 
> - [Detect the MetaMask provider.](#2-detect-metamask)
> - [Determine a user's connected network.](#3-determine-a-users-connected-network)
> - [Access an account.](#4-access-an-account)
> 
> #### Create a project
> 
> Create and navigate into the `simple-dapp` directory using the following commands:
> 
> ```bash
> mkdir simple-dapp
> cd simple-dapp
> ```
> 
> :::caution important
> If you import any modules into your project, such as
> [`@metamask/detect-provider`](https://github.com/MetaMask/detect-provider), use a bundler such as
> [Webpack](https://github.com/webpack/webpack) to compile the modules and create an output script
> `dist/main.js`.
> See [Webpack's Getting Started guide](https://webpack.js.org/guides/getting-started/) for more information.
> :::
> 
> In the `simple-dapp` directory, create `src` for the source files and `dist` for the distribution files that output from your Webpack builds. 
> Create a JavaScript file in `src`, then create an HTML file in `dist` from the `simple-dapp` root.
> Include the following HTML code example to establish a link to the JavaScript file generated by Webpack:

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Set up a new project with the following structure:

```text
simple-dapp/
├─ src/
│  ├─ index.js
├─ dist/
│  ├─ index.html
```

This tutorial will use the [`@metamask/detect-provider`](https://github.com/MetaMask/detect-provider) module and a bundler, [Webpack](https://github.com/webpack/webpack), to compile the module and create an output script `dist/main.js`.

Add the following code to `dist/index.html`:
````

This can be greatly simplified - we can assume basic development background knowledge.

> ```jsx title="index.html"
> <!DOCTYPE html>
> <html lang="en">
> <head>
>     <meta charset="UTF-8">
>     <title>Simple dapp</title>
> </head>
> <body>
>     <script src="../dist/index.js"></script>  <!-- Links to the JavaScript bundle created by Webpack -->
> </body>
> </html>
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```html title="index.html"
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <title>Simple dapp</title>
</head>
<body>
  <script src="../dist/index.js"></script>  <!-- Links to the JavaScript bundle created by Webpack -->
</body>
</html>
```
````

> #### Install and configure Webpack

Reviewer: Maybe make this a separate numbered step.

> Navigate to the root of your `simple-dapp` directory and run the following commands to initialize npm.

Reviewer: ...to initialize npm and install Webpack?

```bash 
npm init -y && npm install --save-dev webpack webpack-cli
```

Create a `webpack.config.js` in the root of your project with the following configuration:

> ```jsx title="index.html"
> const path = require('path');
> 
> module.exports = {
>     entry: './src/index.js',
>     output: {
>         path: path.resolve(__dirname, 'dist'),
>         filename: 'index.js'
>     },
>     mode: 'development'
> };
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```js title="webpack.config.js"
const path = require("path");

module.exports = {
  entry: "./src/index.js",
  output: {
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, "dist"),
    filename: "index.js",
  },
  mode: "development",
};
```
````

Then, edit `package.json` to include a build script:

> ```json
> "scripts": {
>     "build": "webpack"
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```json title="package.json"
"scripts": {
  "build": "webpack"
}
```
````

When you run `npm run build` from your terminal, Webpack bundles the content in `src/index.js` into `dist/main.js`, which is linked in `index.html`.

### 2. Detect MetaMask

> You can use the `@metamask/detect-provider` module to detect the MetaMask Ethereum provider.
> 
> #### Install `@metamask/detect-provider`
> 
> Use [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) to install
> `@metamask/detect-provider` in your project directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the `@metamask/detect-provider` module in your project directory:
```

Maybe also add another reminder here that this method of detecting MetaMask is deprecated and we recommend using EIP-6963 in production.

```bash
npm i @metamask/detect-provider
```

> #### Detect the MetaMask provider
> 
> The following code example demonstrates how to detect the MetaMask provider in your dapp using `@metamask/detect-provider`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following code to `src/index.js` to detect the MetaMask provider using `@metamask/detect-provider`:
```

> ```jsx title="src/index.js"
> import detectEthereumProvider from "@metamask/detect-provider";
> 
> async function setup() {
>     const provider = await detectEthereumProvider();
> 
>     if (provider && provider === window.ethereum) {
>         console.log('MetaMask is available!');
>         startApp(provider); // Initialize your dapp with MetaMask.
>     } else {
>         console.log("Please install MetaMask!");
>     }
> }
> 
> function startApp(provider) {
>     if (provider !== window.ethereum) {
>         console.error("Do you have multiple wallets installed?");
>     }
> }
> 
> window.addEventListener('load', setup);
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```js title="index.js"
import detectEthereumProvider from "@metamask/detect-provider";

async function setup() {
  const provider = await detectEthereumProvider();

  if (provider && provider === window.ethereum) {
    console.log("MetaMask is available!");
    startApp(provider); // Initialize your dapp with MetaMask.
  } else {
    console.log("Please install MetaMask!");
  }
}

function startApp(provider) {
  if (provider !== window.ethereum) {
    console.error("Do you have multiple wallets installed?");
  }
}

window.addEventListener("load", setup);
```

````

Edited metadata, quotes, indents, and line break after snippet

#### Serve the project

To test and verify your project works with MetaMask, serve your project through a local server. 

> If using VS Code, right-click the `index.html` file, and select **Open with Live Server**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If using VS Code and [Live Server](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ritwickdey.LiveServer), right-click the `index.html` file, and select **Open with Live Server**. 
```

Alternatively, you can install `http-server` using the following command:

```bash
npm install -g http-server

> ``` 

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

````

Then navigate to the project directory, and run `http-server`. 

Open your browser and go to the provided local server URL (typically http://127.0.0.1:8080).

### 3. Determine a user's connected network

> Each network has a unique Chain ID. 
> Determining the connected network requires querying this Chain ID.
> You can track the network’s [chain ID](../../how-to/manage-networks/detect-network/#chain-ids.md) to identify which network a user is connected to.
> 
> Use the [`eth_chainId`](/wallet/reference/eth_chainId)
> RPC method to detect the chain ID of the user's current network.
> Listen to the [`chainChanged`](/wallet/reference/provider-api/#chainchanged) provider event to
> detect when the user changes networks.
> 
> For example, the following code detects a user's network and when the user changes networks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
[Detect the user's network](../how-to/connect/detect-metamask.md) to ensure all RPC requests are submitted to the currently connected network.
Add the following code to `src/index.js`, which uses the [`eth_chainId`](/wallet/reference/eth_chainId)
RPC method to detect the chain ID of the user's current network, and listens to the [`chainChanged`](/wallet/reference/provider-api/#chainchanged) provider event to detect when the user changes networks:
```

> ```jsx title="index.js"
> const chainId = await window.ethereum 
>     .request({ method: "eth_chainId" });
> 
> window.ethereum
>     .on("chainChanged", handleChainChanged);
> 
> function handleChainChanged(chainId) {
>     // We recommend reloading the page, unless you must do otherwise.
>     window.location.reload();
> }
> ```
> For more information on Chain IDs, see [Detect a user's network](../how-to/connect/detect-metamask.md)

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```js title="index.js"
const chainId = await window.ethereum 
  .request({ method: "eth_chainId" });

window.ethereum
  .on("chainChanged", handleChainChanged);

function handleChainChanged(chainId) {
  // We recommend reloading the page, unless you must do otherwise.
  window.location.reload();
}
```
````

### 4. Access an account

> To interact with Ethereum on the user's behalf, such as sending transactions or requesting balances, you need their Ethereum address. To perform actions, such as [signing transactions](../how-to/sign-data/index.md), your dapp needs to access user accounts.
> 
> :::info note
> `eth_requestAccounts` internally calls [`wallet_requestPermissions`](/wallet/reference/wallet_requestPermissions)
> to [request permission](../how-to/manage-permissions.md) to call the restricted
> [`eth_accounts`](/wallet/reference/eth_accounts) method.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To interact with Ethereum on the user's behalf, such as sending transactions or requesting balances, your dapp needs to [access the user's accounts](../how-to/connect/access-accounts) by calling [`eth_requestAccounts`](/wallet/reference/eth_requestaccounts).
```

Simplify

> #### Create a connect button
> 
> We recommend providing a button to allow users to connect MetaMask to your dapp.
> Selecting the button should activate the call to `eth_requestAccounts`, allowing you to access to user's accounts.
> 
> For example, the following JavaScript code accesses the user's accounts when they select a connect
> button:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following code to `src/index.js`, which creates a button to allow users to connect to MetaMask from your dapp.
Selecting the button activates the call to `eth_requestAccounts`, allowing you to access to user's accounts.
```

const ethereumButton = document.querySelector(".enableEthereumButton");
const showAccount = document.querySelector(".showAccount");

ethereumButton.addEventListener("click", () => {
  getAccount();
});

// While awaiting the call to eth_requestAccounts, you should disable any buttons the user can
// select to initiate the request. MetaMask rejects any additional requests while the first is still
// pending.
async function getAccount() {
  const accounts = await window.ethereum
    .request({ method: "eth_requestAccounts" })
      .catch((err) => {
        if (err.code === 4001) {
          // EIP-1193 userRejectedRequest error.
          // If this happens, the user rejected the connection request.
          console.log("Please connect to MetaMask.");
        } else {
          console.error(err);
        }
      });
  const account = accounts[0];
  showAccount.innerHTML = account;
}
```

The following HTML code displays the button and the current account:

```html title="index.html"
<!-- Display a connect button and the current account -->
<button class="enableEthereumButton">Enable Ethereum</button>
<h2>Account: <span class="showAccount"></span></h2>
```

> 
> For more information on connecting MetaMask to your dapp, see [Access a user's accounts](/wallet/how-to/connect/access-accounts/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Integrated link at top of step in previous suggestion

## Example simple dapp 

> Using the following project structure, you can run a build process to bundle your JavaScript code and copy your HTML file into the `dist` directory:
> 
> ```text
> simple-dapp/
> ├─ src/
> │  ├─ index.js
> ├─ dist/
> │  ├─ index.html
> ```
> 
> The following is an example simple dapp script and HTML file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code samples contain the full simple dapp JavaScript and HTML code that this tutorial walks through. You can copy these full examples to get started quickly!
```
